packages/web3/README.md, before:

# @ds3/web3

> 🌐 **Web Support Only** - Native support coming soon!

🚀 **Ultimate cross-platform blockchain components that feel native everywhere**

Build powerful Web3 interfaces that work seamlessly across web and mobile platforms, with a comprehensive set of components that handle blockchain interactions, wallet connections, and Ethereum-specific utilities.

```tsx
// One import. Any platform. Native everywhere.
import { Account, Address, ChainAvatar } from '@ds3/web3';
```

## ✨ Standout Features

✨ **Built on @ds3/ui** - Leverages true cross-platform components with compound patterns, dual APIs, and unified styling through Tailwind + NativeWind

🔗 **Wallet Integration** - Seamless connection with MetaMask, WalletConnect, and other popular wallets

🌐 **Cross-Chain Support** - Display and interact with multiple blockchain networks through a unified interface

🔍 **ENS Resolution** - Automatic resolution of Ethereum addresses to human-readable ENS names


## 🚀 Get Started

```bash
pnpm add @ds3/core @ds3/web3
```

For detailed framework setup and configuration, see the [@ds3/core documentation](src/packages/core).

## 📚 Component Library

DS3 Web3 gives you production-ready components for building modern blockchain interfaces:

### Account Components
- [**Account**](src/components/account) - Display and manage connected wallet accounts with ENS resolution

### Address Components
- [**Address**](src/components/address) - Display Ethereum addresses with ENS resolution and truncation
- [**AddressAvatar**](src/components/address) - Generate and display avatars based on Ethereum addresses
- [**AddressCard**](src/components/address) - Card layout for displaying addresses with avatars

### Chain Components

- [**ChainAvatar**](src/components/chain) - Display network avatars and indicators
- [**ChainSelector**](src/components/chain) - Network selection dropdown (coming soon)

### Wallet Components

- [**MetaMaskLogin**](src/components/wallet) - Connect to MetaMask wallet
- [**DisconnectButton**](src/components/wallet) - Disconnect current wallet
- [**WalletConnect**](src/components/wallet) - Connect to WalletConnect (coming soon)

## 🛠️ Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
pnpm i

# Watch and build
pnpm dev

# Production build
pnpm build
```

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions!

## 📜 License

MIT

Commit message:

Update README.md files across multiple packages to include a note on active development status, emphasizing that APIs and features may change. Enhance documentation clarity by standardizing references to the Dual API and Compound Components, and add semantic color mapping details in the @ds3/theme package.

packages/web3/README.md, after:

# @ds3/web3

> 🚧 **Note**: This package is under active development. While we're working hard to make it production-ready, please be aware that APIs and features may change. We welcome your feedback and contributions as we continue to improve!
>
> 🌐 **Web Support Only** - Native support coming soon!

🚀 **Ultimate cross-platform blockchain components that feel native everywhere**

Build powerful Web3 interfaces that work seamlessly across web and mobile platforms, with a comprehensive set of components that handle blockchain interactions, wallet connections, and Ethereum-specific utilities.

```tsx
// One import. Any platform. Native everywhere.
import { Account, Address, ChainAvatar } from '@ds3/web3';
```

## ✨ Standout Features

✨ **Built on @ds3/ui** - Leverages true cross-platform components with compound patterns, dual APIs, and unified styling through Tailwind + NativeWind

🔗 **Wallet Integration** - Seamless connection with MetaMask, WalletConnect, and other popular wallets

🌐 **Cross-Chain Support** - Display and interact with multiple blockchain networks through a unified interface

🔍 **ENS Resolution** - Automatic resolution of Ethereum addresses to human-readable ENS names


## 🚀 Get Started

```bash
pnpm add @ds3/core @ds3/web3
```

For detailed framework setup and configuration, see the [@ds3/core documentation](src/packages/core).

## 📚 Component Library

DS3 Web3 gives you production-ready components for building modern blockchain interfaces:

### Account Components
- [**Account**](src/components/account) - Display and manage connected wallet accounts with ENS resolution

### Address Components
- [**Address**](src/components/address) - Display Ethereum addresses with ENS resolution and truncation
- [**AddressAvatar**](src/components/address) - Generate and display avatars based on Ethereum addresses
- [**AddressCard**](src/components/address) - Card layout for displaying addresses with avatars

### Chain Components

- [**ChainAvatar**](src/components/chain) - Display network avatars and indicators
- [**ChainSelector**](src/components/chain) - Network selection dropdown (coming soon)

### Wallet Components

- [**MetaMaskLogin**](src/components/wallet) - Connect to MetaMask wallet
- [**DisconnectButton**](src/components/wallet) - Disconnect current wallet
- [**WalletConnect**](src/components/wallet) - Connect to WalletConnect (coming soon)

## 🛠️ Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
pnpm i

# Watch and build
pnpm dev

# Production build
pnpm build
```

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions!

## 📜 License

MIT
