packages/config/README.md, before:

# @ds3/config

🔧 **Unified configuration layer for the DS3 ecosystem**

Build consistent, type-safe applications across web and React Native with a single configuration layer that handles framework integration, theming, and build tooling.

```tsx
// One configuration. Any platform. Native everywhere.
import { vitePlugin } from '@ds3/config/vite';
import { nativewindPreset } from '@ds3/config/nativewind';
```

## ✨ Standout Features

🔄 **Framework Integration** - Seamless setup for Vite, Expo, and React Native with optimized defaults

🎨 **Theme Integration** - Unified theming system that works across all platforms

🔧 **Build Tooling** - Comprehensive build configurations for web and native development

📱 **Cross-Platform** - Consistent configuration patterns for web and React Native

🛠️ **Type Safety** - Full TypeScript support with comprehensive type definitions

🏗️ **Workspace Support** - Optimized for monorepo setups with proper module resolution

## 🚀 Get Started

```bash
pnpm add @ds3/config
```

### Theme Configuration & Runtime Access

The configuration system follows a three-step process to make your theme available throughout your application:

1. **Configuration**: Define your theme settings in `ds3.config.ts`
2. **Processing**: The configuration is processed and transformed into a runtime theme object
3. **Injection**: The theme object is injected into your application's global scope

Each platform has its own way of accessing global variables:
- **Web (Vite)**: See [Vite Plugin](#vite-plugin) section for details
- **React Native (Expo)**: See [Expo Configuration](#expo-configuration) section for details

### Theme Configuration

For detailed theme configuration options, see the [@ds3/theme documentation](../theme/README.md).

```typescript
// ds3.config.ts
import { UserConfig } from '@ds3/theme'

export default {
  themes: {
    default: {
      colors: {
        neutral: 'gray',
        primary: 'blue',
        secondary: 'violet',
        error: 'red',
        warning: 'amber',
        success: 'green',
      },
    },
  },
} satisfies UserConfig;
```

## 📚 Configuration Options

### Vite Plugin

The Vite plugin provides optimized defaults for web development:

```typescript
// vite.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import ds3Plugin from '@ds3/config/vite';
import ds3Config from "./ds3.config";

export default defineConfig(({ command }) => ({
  plugins: [
    ds3Plugin(command, ds3Config),
  ],
}));
```

The plugin automatically:
- Configures React and React Native Web
- Sets up NativeWind babel preset
- Injects theme configuration into `import.meta.env.DS3`
- Optimizes dependencies for [@ds3/ui](../ui/README.md) components

You can access the theme configuration in your application using:
```typescript
const theme = import.meta.env.DS3;
```

See [vite.plugin.ts](src/vite.plugin.ts) for implementation details.
See [vite.config.ts](apps/vite-example/vite.config.ts) for usage example.

### NativeWind Preset

The NativeWind preset combines Tailwind and React Native styling:

```javascript
// tailwind.config.js
import ds3Preset from "@ds3/config/nativewind";
import ds3Config from "./ds3.config";

export default {
  content: [
    "./index.html",
    "./src/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}",
    './node_modules/@ds3/ui/**/*.{js,jsx,ts,tsx}',
  ],
  presets: [ds3Preset(ds3Config)]
}
```

See [nativewind.preset.ts](src/nativewind.preset.ts) for implementation details.
See [tailwind.config.js](apps/vite-example/tailwind.config.js) for usage example.

### Expo Configuration

Expo-specific configurations for React Native development:

```javascript
// app.config.js
import withDs3 from '@ds3/config/expo';
import ds3Config from './ds3.config';

module.exports = ({ config }) => {
  return withDs3({ config, ds3Config });
};
```

The Expo configuration:
- Processes and validates your theme configuration
- Injects the theme into `global.DS3` for runtime access
- Ensures consistent theming across your React Native application

You can access the theme configuration in your application using:
```typescript
const theme = global.DS3;
```

See [expo.preset.ts](src/expo.preset.ts) for implementation details.
See [app.config.js](apps/expo-example/app.config.js) for usage example.

### Babel Configuration

```javascript
// babel.config.js
module.exports = function (api) {
  api.cache(true);
  return {
    presets: ['@ds3/config/expo/babel'],
  };
};
```

The babel preset automatically configures:
- babel-preset-expo with NativeWind support
- NativeWind babel plugin
- Proper JSX handling for React Native

See [babel.preset.ts](src/babel.preset.ts) for implementation details.
See [babel.config.js](apps/expo-example/babel.config.js) for usage example.

### Metro Configuration

Metro bundler configuration for React Native:

```javascript
// metro.config.js
const { getDefaultConfig } = require('expo/metro-config');
const { withDs3Workspace } = require('@ds3/config/metro');

const config = getDefaultConfig(__dirname);
module.exports = withDs3Workspace(config);
```

The Metro configuration:
- Sets up NativeWind processing
- Configures proper module resolution
- Handles monorepo workspace dependencies
- Optimizes build performance

See [metro.config.ts](src/metro.config.ts) for implementation details.
See [metro.config.js](apps/expo-example/metro.config.js) for usage example.

For complete examples, see:
- [Vite Example](apps/vite-example) - Web implementation
- [Expo Example](apps/expo-example) - React Native implementation

## 🏛️ Architecture

@ds3/config provides a unified configuration layer that ties together the entire DS3 ecosystem:

1. **Single Source of Truth**
   - One `ds3.config.ts` file configures everything
   - Type-safe configuration with `UserConfig` type
   - Consistent theming across all platforms

2. **Framework Integration**
   - Vite for web development
   - Expo for React Native
   - NativeWind for styling
   - Metro for bundling

3. **Workspace Optimization**
   - Monorepo-aware module resolution
   - Shared dependency management
   - Consistent build configuration
   - Development server optimization

## 🛠️ Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
pnpm i

# Watch and build
pnpm dev

# Production build
pnpm build
```

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions!

## 📜 License

MIT

Commit message:

Update README.md files across multiple packages to include a note on active development status, emphasizing that APIs and features may change. Enhance documentation clarity by standardizing references to the Dual API and Compound Components, and add semantic color mapping details in the @ds3/theme package.

packages/config/README.md, after:

# @ds3/config

> 🚧 **Note**: This package is under active development. While we're working hard to make it production-ready, please be aware that APIs and features may change. We welcome your feedback and contributions as we continue to improve!

🔧 **Unified configuration layer for the DS3 ecosystem**

Build consistent, type-safe applications across web and React Native with a single configuration layer that handles framework integration, theming, and build tooling.

```tsx
// One configuration. Any platform. Native everywhere.
import { vitePlugin } from '@ds3/config/vite';
import { nativewindPreset } from '@ds3/config/nativewind';
```

## ✨ Standout Features

🔄 **Framework Integration** - Seamless setup for Vite, Expo, and React Native with optimized defaults

🎨 **Theme Integration** - Unified theming system that works across all platforms

🔧 **Build Tooling** - Comprehensive build configurations for web and native development

📱 **Cross-Platform** - Consistent configuration patterns for web and React Native

🛠️ **Type Safety** - Full TypeScript support with comprehensive type definitions

🏗️ **Workspace Support** - Optimized for monorepo setups with proper module resolution

## 🚀 Get Started

```bash
pnpm add @ds3/config
```

### Theme Configuration & Runtime Access

The configuration system follows a three-step process to make your theme available throughout your application:

1. **Configuration**: Define your theme settings in `ds3.config.ts`
2. **Processing**: The configuration is processed and transformed into a runtime theme object
3. **Injection**: The theme object is injected into your application's global scope

Each platform has its own way of accessing global variables:
- **Web (Vite)**: See [Vite Plugin](#vite-plugin) section for details
- **React Native (Expo)**: See [Expo Configuration](#expo-configuration) section for details

### Theme Configuration

For detailed theme configuration options, see the [@ds3/theme documentation](../theme/README.md).

```typescript
// ds3.config.ts
import { UserConfig } from '@ds3/theme'

export default {
  themes: {
    default: {
      colors: {
        neutral: 'gray',
        primary: 'blue',
        secondary: 'violet',
        error: 'red',
        warning: 'amber',
        success: 'green',
      },
    },
  },
} satisfies UserConfig;
```

## 📚 Configuration Options

### Vite Plugin

The Vite plugin provides optimized defaults for web development:

```typescript
// vite.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import ds3Plugin from '@ds3/config/vite';
import ds3Config from "./ds3.config";

export default defineConfig(({ command }) => ({
  plugins: [
    ds3Plugin(command, ds3Config),
  ],
}));
```

The plugin automatically:
- Configures React and React Native Web
- Sets up NativeWind babel preset
- Injects theme configuration into `import.meta.env.DS3`
- Optimizes dependencies for [@ds3/ui](../ui/README.md) components

You can access the theme configuration in your application using:
```typescript
const theme = import.meta.env.DS3;
```

See [vite.plugin.ts](src/vite.plugin.ts) for implementation details.
See [vite.config.ts](apps/vite-example/vite.config.ts) for usage example.

### NativeWind Preset

The NativeWind preset combines Tailwind and React Native styling:

```javascript
// tailwind.config.js
import ds3Preset from "@ds3/config/nativewind";
import ds3Config from "./ds3.config";

export default {
  content: [
    "./index.html",
    "./src/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}",
    './node_modules/@ds3/ui/**/*.{js,jsx,ts,tsx}',
  ],
  presets: [ds3Preset(ds3Config)]
}
```

See [nativewind.preset.ts](src/nativewind.preset.ts) for implementation details.
See [tailwind.config.js](apps/vite-example/tailwind.config.js) for usage example.

### Expo Configuration

Expo-specific configurations for React Native development:

```javascript
// app.config.js
import withDs3 from '@ds3/config/expo';
import ds3Config from './ds3.config';

module.exports = ({ config }) => {
  return withDs3({ config, ds3Config });
};
```

The Expo configuration:
- Processes and validates your theme configuration
- Injects the theme into `global.DS3` for runtime access
- Ensures consistent theming across your React Native application

You can access the theme configuration in your application using:
```typescript
const theme = global.DS3;
```

See [expo.preset.ts](src/expo.preset.ts) for implementation details.
See [app.config.js](apps/expo-example/app.config.js) for usage example.

### Babel Configuration

```javascript
// babel.config.js
module.exports = function (api) {
  api.cache(true);
  return {
    presets: ['@ds3/config/expo/babel'],
  };
};
```

The babel preset automatically configures:
- babel-preset-expo with NativeWind support
- NativeWind babel plugin
- Proper JSX handling for React Native

See [babel.preset.ts](src/babel.preset.ts) for implementation details.
See [babel.config.js](apps/expo-example/babel.config.js) for usage example.

### Metro Configuration

Metro bundler configuration for React Native:

```javascript
// metro.config.js
const { getDefaultConfig } = require('expo/metro-config');
const { withDs3Workspace } = require('@ds3/config/metro');

const config = getDefaultConfig(__dirname);
module.exports = withDs3Workspace(config);
```

The Metro configuration:
- Sets up NativeWind processing
- Configures proper module resolution
- Handles monorepo workspace dependencies
- Optimizes build performance

See [metro.config.ts](src/metro.config.ts) for implementation details.
See [metro.config.js](apps/expo-example/metro.config.js) for usage example.

For complete examples, see:
- [Vite Example](apps/vite-example) - Web implementation
- [Expo Example](apps/expo-example) - React Native implementation

## 🏛️ Architecture

@ds3/config provides a unified configuration layer that ties together the entire DS3 ecosystem:

1. **Single Source of Truth**
   - One `ds3.config.ts` file configures everything
   - Type-safe configuration with `UserConfig` type
   - Consistent theming across all platforms

2. **Framework Integration**
   - Vite for web development
   - Expo for React Native
   - NativeWind for styling
   - Metro for bundling

3. **Workspace Optimization**
   - Monorepo-aware module resolution
   - Shared dependency management
   - Consistent build configuration
   - Development server optimization

## 🛠️ Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
pnpm i

# Watch and build
pnpm dev

# Production build
pnpm build
```

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions!

## 📜 License

MIT
